# Adapting CQS proofs to use with Eio

## Differences

1. Eio state transition system is a lot easier.
   CQS supports a lot of functionality that is not used by Eio. Removing everything allows me to understand the core proof better and makes it easier to adapt.
1. CQS uses futures for asynchronicity. Eio uses callbacks.  
   In CQS, when popping a value from the queue, the pop function creates a promise and returns that.
   In Eio, when popping a value from the queue, the pop funciton receives a callback which should be called when a value is available.
   In both cases, the other thread which pushes a value to the queue completes the future/invokes the callback.  
   Both forms (futures & callbacks) should be equivalent but since there are other differences in the API, I will adapt the proofs to use callbacks.

1. Cancellation works differently.
   In CQS, a future can be cancelled by the thread which tried to pop a value. This prevents another thread that is pushing a value to complete the future.
   In Eio, a callback can also be cancelled from the queue, but the thread will then invoke the callback itself (for example with an error value). In this case cancellation needs to return the original permit to invoke the callback.  
   CQS does XXX.

1. New API for Eio.
   Eio defines a new function that takes one value and pushes it into the queue repeatedly until all threads that are waiting for a value are satisfied.
   This does not exist in the original CQS and needs to be added.

Currently, I am adapting the proof still in heaplang. The assumption is that since it does not use effects at all, it will be easy to port to Hazel later.
